an image of an Israeli soldier standing
over a stripped and wounded Palestinian
man in Gaza has emerged on social media
this is a screen grab from a video
uploaded by the soldier himself it was
reportedly recorded in Gaza City the US
state department has called the image
deeply troubling while the Israeli
military says the video is quote
contrary to its protocols and
values well it's just one of many highly
criticized social media posts from
Israeli soldiers in
Gaza
who okay so what you've just heard is an
Israeli soldier reacting to the
demolition of a residential building
other videos show Israeli soldiers
joking about civilians in Gaza not being
involved in the conflict as they walk
through the ruins of homes and schools
South Africa's case at the international
court of justice referenced videos
similar to these as evidence of
genocidal
intent okay let's introduce Lewis Moreno
ampo is the former Chief prosecutor at
the international criminal court he
joins us from pad Del EST in Uruguay a
very warm welcome to you thanks for your
time so even in Conflict there are
clearly Rules of Engagement but we know
some of Israel's acts in Gaza amount to
quote plausible acts of genocide that's
according to the international court of
justice as we continue to see image
after image of Israeli soldiers
apparently abusing their positions in
Gaza and indeed the West Bank what does
an organization like the international
criminal court do with evidence like
that well I think the most important
court now in the short term to protect
the people both protect the family of
the hostage and the Gaza people the most
important in international court of
justice decision as you rightly say the
13 judges say this it's plow possibility
is a genocide on goinging and in three
weeks Israel how to has to present to
the judges how they would change to
transform the situation that why it's a
very important moment now because there
are like par tracks I see the core
decision demanding Israel come back to
us in three weeks tell what you will do
I see us and Qatar working on
agreement with Hamas on the ceas
fire uh that is in some way moving the
same direction of
course
that will be problematic for Netanyahu
because
Netanyahu end of the war is his end as a
political leader so that why it's a
conflict between Israeli hostages isi
people the Gaza people and Nan
Destiny ju just uh while you're talking
we're looking at some of the images that
have been uploaded by uh Israeli
soldiers some of them appear to be
reving in acts of violence in Gaza and
the West Bank uh we have heard time and
time again said in Israel that the
Israeli military is one of the most
moral and ethical armies uh in the
region what what does what we're seeing
now say and do to those
claims well in the international court
of justice decision one point that even
the Israel judge agree is that Israel
justice system has to investigate
whoever is inciting into violence so I
this images should be investigated by
Isel itself and including the
demonstration to block the the
humanarian
assistance that would be genocide so I
believe the court in Israel can show
commitment to the idea of law is a way
to harmonize interest no war and they
could start these cases investigating
people in
Israel that is inight into genocide
Netanyahu is different the international
K Court could and maybe will deal with
himself because there is no immunity
before the international criminal court
so Netanyahu even as a prime minister
cannot be investigated in Israel could
be investigated by thec the problem
is this investigation against will take
time and we need to protect the people
today that why to protect
Israeli who has hostages in Gaza and to
protect the Gaza people is really
important the next three weeks right how
Qatar and US put pressure on the SE fire
what n will do and what will happen in
three weeks when Israel had to go back
to the H to present what they will do
right I mean they do nothing sure
yeah you you you talked about the the um
and enforcement of law in Israel and the
law being a unifying force for Israel
going forward but we're seeing Israeli
demonstrators on the uh Karam Abu salum
Crossing many aligned with the Israeli
far right blocking aid from entering
Gaza contrary to the emergency measures
passed by the icj to allow in Aid does
that mean these so-called demonstrators
are themselves particip participating in
crimes against
humanity for genocide well that is one
of the points that the international
court of justice said that the US
Judiciary should control inight into
violence in Israel or incit to commit
genocide and the point I did is even the
Barack the judge Israel judge who is
sitting in the international court of
justice agree on that point so
absolutely clear yes Israel Judiciary
should investigate this crimes this the
statements and investigate initation to
commit genocide but my point about the
law is not just about inside Israel
Israel choose to go to war and that's
why IJ could transform the agenda is not
is Hamas should be controlled Hamas
could not commit commit crimes but could
not be a war against civilians in Gaza
that is the way we have to that his goal
stop War stop
terrorism stop
killings you the law idea Africa yeah
just returning to the sit this situation
on that all important border crossing I
mean what appears quite clear is that
those um who are blocking Aid a group
calling themselves or Denine seem to
have the implicit or tcid support of
some serving cabinet members these are
people like itamar benier the national
security minister could it be argued
this blockade of Aid is State
sanctioned yes stopping
Aid could be in particular to
destroy the
civilians is genocide under article 2C
with inflicting condition to destroy the
community and I believe it's a shame
that the person got did that was
rejected by Israeli army forces for
because extremist Behavior so is the
Israel Armed Forces who rejected the
current Minister G to be in the in the
Army and now this person is leading the
security that's why we are talking about
Gaza but we should also focus on what V
is doing in West
Bank yes Mr V could not be a minister in
Israel is an extremist right wing saved
by the Israel
army uh Louis Morano oampo former Chief
prosecutor the IC in the he many thanks
for joining us and sharing your thoughts
thank you